# Airline and Airport Flight Delay Data Analysis

## Foreword

The analysis in this folder has been carried out as part of an interview for a role as a data scientist for a company that engages in data science and AI consulting work in the airline industry. The use-case interview had been scheduled after an initial interview. I got a link to the data (as well as a downloaded .csv file) and the objective was to analyze the data and present any interesting findings - no context or more specific questions on this vague objective had been given. The name of the company has been redacted as requested by them. Although my use-case presentation was received as interesting, clearly explained, and reflecting a solid understanding of ML concepts - no offer had been made. Feel free to contact me if you think their loss might be your gain.

## Tools

I've used jupyter-lab together with sage(-math), R, and python on the number-crunching part; and standard office tools on the business part of the analysis.

To create a copy of the environment, install mamba and then run

```
mamba env create --file sage_env.yaml
```

As for R, a list of packages can be found in `R-packages.csv`. You probably should use bioconductor to install these packages. Also, you probably should install the jupyterlab kernels for R and sage to make use of the notebooks.

## Folder structure

The `notebook` folder contains the jupyterlab notebooks and the data used for the analysis with R and python. The `analysis` folder contains other downloaded information, the parts of the analysis that have been done in Excel, context information from the internet, and the slides that I prepared for the 'use-case interview'. The pictures that I used in the presentation are either generated by myself or have been found through the online image search function of PowerPoint - these pictures should all be creative-commons licensed, some might not be fit for commercial use and many have BY requirements.
